let's get started okay so today is day 8
and 10 today we are gonna talk about
fear or not theories really models of
mind so the goal of today is to talk a
little bit about you can see that okay
okay you know what are the different
ways that we can understand how our mind
works like what are the different models
we can use to understand the system of
mind so we're gonna start with first by
talking about Western models of mind
[Music]
then we're gonna talk about ethics
psychology and then hopefully we'll do
like a little bit of kind of exercises
to think through these things so let's
start with Western models okay Western
models so the first thing is oh the
third thing is gonna be like practical
applications okay
so Western models the first thing is
that the Western model of the mind
basically has a couple of components so
the first kind of model that we can
think about is conscious subconscious
or unconscious and some people will
actually put the unconscious is separate
from the subconscious they'll actually
say that this actually goes here I think
it really doesn't matter so this sort of
posits that you have I think the best
way to understand this is you have
thoughts and then you have the place
that thoughts come from okay
and that's basically like the Western
model of the mind right like so we say
that we have our unconscious mind or
subconscious mind which is where like
particular thoughts are just going to
come from and you know it's it's there's
not really a clear sense of how
conscious mind and subconscious mind or
unconscious mind interact you can't
really use conscious mind to control
unconscious mind it's a little bit you
know it's sort of this general
observation that there's a part of the
mind that is not active and then there's
a part of the mind that is active or
noticeable and that's kind of it
this stuff was sort of developed by
Western psychologists especially people
like Freud and Jung although it's very
possible that earlier philosophers kind
of you know notice this as well so let's
talk about sort of the central Freudian
model before we get to the good stuff
okay
so Freud posited that our mind this was
really his biggest contribution kind of
I mean one of the biggest contributions
was sort of the acknowledgment that we
have an unconscious mind before Freud
people didn't really think about the
unconscious as a thing whereas now we
all sort of accept it
and that was largely Freud's
contribution so the other thing that
Freud sort of talked about is that we
have something called the ED we have
something called the ego and we
essentially have something called the
super-ego and the way that he defined
these is the it'd is our impulses
instincts
so like these are the kinds of like if I
smell a a hamburger cooking I'm gonna
want to eat it I may have sexual
impulses which he was a big fan of
talking about they're just basically
different kinds of like impulses or
desires that we have or super-ego is our
sense of morality or like sense of right
and wrong
so if I see like a hamburger being
cooked but from a street vendor I'm just
not gonna pick it up and eat it I'm
gonna sort of pay for it I'll you know
order one etc so this is sort of the
part of us that essentially controls
restrains our impulses so if we think
about it it's like pure impulsivity and
then control over here those are the it
and the the super-ego and then in the
middle is the ego which is sort of
mediates the interactions of it and
super-ego okay so the it is like in the
middle so if I have an impulse to eat a
hamburger but then there's a part of me
that says oh no you should pay for it
that the part that resolves that
conflict or manages those two sides is
the ego and so for example if we look at
people who are self critical or self
judgmental they're gonna have a lopsided
they're gonna have a super-ego that is
very strong and like stronger than let's
say the it'd or ego okay and then like
another person so sometimes when people
are depressed they really beat up on
themselves right so beating up yourself
is a strong super-ego
so that's like a quick way to kind of
understand it right so if we if I'm
really self-critical and notice that
like beating up yourself isn't
necessarily a bad thing I mean it is a
bad thing because you're gonna feel bad
but beating up yourself can actually
lead to like productivity and success
like academic success professional
success so sometimes some of these like
beating up yourself kind of
characteristics can be correlated with
like positive things in the real world
so that's an example of like a strong
super-ego so if someone is kind of like
animalistic so if someone is kind of
animalistic and what I mean by that or
maybe animalistic isn't the right word
hedonistic it's maybe a better word
that's kind of a situation where the
it'd is way stronger than the super-ego
or ego and then generally speaking what
Freud posited or what people after Freud
posited was that you know the stronger
your ego is the better off you're gonna
be
so like ego strength is sort of the
ability to sit with this like sit with
these two different parts of yourself
so hedonistic means pleasure-seeking I
don't know why I put quotes there right
so like you don't really have you just
do what feels fun or what feels good
like you don't eat healthy you eat
things that taste good you don't want to
work you don't want to do other things
like you're you're basically controlled
by your impulses okay so and then when
when these things are well balanced when
you have a strong ego it sort of manages
your moralistic side from your you're
like impulsive side and then you're
basically kind of a balanced human being
okay so that's one model so this is kind
of the Western model so let's go to the
Vedic model okay
so Vedic model of move this over a
little bit there we go okay so the first
thing that I want you guys to understand
about the Vedic model of mind and why
this is useful is that we have
conflicting thoughts so this is why I
like this model of the mind so generally
speaking if I decide that I'm gonna do
something there are other parts of my
mind that tell me that I'm not gonna do
this thing like if I say I'm gonna wake
up every day and I'm gonna do yoga
that's one part of your mind right so
I'm gonna do yoga every day I'm gonna
yoga great so that's the thought that
you have and there are all kinds of
other things in your mind that crop up
like how about we watch twitch right and
there are all kinds of things like I'm
not flexible
there are all kinds of thoughts that
kind of crop up so the question is like
how on earth does this work
why do we have conflicting thoughts in
our mind why doesn't our mind just make
a decision and do it right like this if
you stop and think about it we think
about the mind is one thing we think
about it is monolithic but if the mind
is one thing like why on earth do we
have contradictory thoughts like what is
up with that right it's not like we go
around in life with like you know my
left hand is like hey I'm gonna drink my
water and then the right hand is like no
we're not gonna drink the water no what
are you doing don't drink the water in
my left hand it's like no no I really
wonder get my right is like no don't
drink the water right that's not how are
the rest of our body works it's not like
one eye is like I'm gonna look over here
and then the other eye is gonna like I'm
gonna look over there alright so if you
have a weakness in one eye muscle
sometimes you can get you know
cross-eyed but that's separate so this
is normal okay that our mind has
conflicting thoughts and so the question
is like why does our mind have
conflicting conflicting thoughts and the
short answer is that we have different
pieces of mind and the the four pieces
that I'm going to talk about are three
four or five pieces I'm going to talk
about the first is the munnis which is
emotional mind
the second is a hum car which is ego or
identity and then the third is would be
or intellect rationality the fourth part
of mind is a some scar or undigested
emotion or pattern also personality and
then the fourth is chittha or
unconscious or really mind stuff you
can't I'll explain what these mean so
what I want you guys to understand is
the reason we have conflicting thoughts
in the mind and the reason we have a war
in our mind is because we have different
we have thoughts that come from
different places so it's not like our
mind is one thing it's like our mind is
like knights of the round table at
Camelot and like different parts of the
mind are gonna have different thoughts
so let me give you guys an example okay
so let's say that I want to apply for a
job so my would be
so my intellect let's use the scenario
of job so my intellect is going to say
[Music]
we need a job and then what happens is
like like when we like go to ask for an
application we feel anxiety right like
if we go and do if we're not used to it
the thought of going in somewhere and
asking for an application can lead to
all kinds of anxiety and so what happens
in our emotional mind we feel anxiety
and then that anxiety gives us another
thought
I don't wanna okay actually that's not
that's not correct it's a different part
of our mind tricky tricky tricky the
they they will think I'm stupid
okay and then what happens is we have
another thought and this thought comes
from our identity or ego so this thought
says getting a minimum-wage job is for
losers right so like this is how our
mind actually functions even though you
know you need a job and getting a
minimum-wage job isn't for losers
you have different parts of your mind
that like are conflicting and you can
like clearly see that the different
thoughts are sourced from different
parts of your mind
right your emotions will lead to certain
kinds of thoughts your identity or ego
will say like I'm smarter than this
right and then you end up like confused
because a week later you're sitting at
home and you're like I need a job and
then so you kind of think through this
right and then like days go by and then
you end up back here
we still need a job and then the process
repeats itself and then like this leads
to frustration and annoyance and and
beating yourself up because you're like
why on earth like why does this happen
to me I don't understand and then what
happens is you conclude right that like
this is the conclusion then you analyze
yourself so then your intellect steps in
and says like how on earth does this
work how does this work and then it
concludes I'm lazy right this what you
guys can do it oh I'm lazy i
procrastinate
so you guys come up with these umbrella
terms which don't actually help you at
all like so laziness is not an
actionable term so this is what I don't
like about using words like laziness or
astha nation or willpower
I mean it starting to be their actual
but they're really not actionable like
what's the cure for laziness being born
not lazy like how does that help us
there's no point in in conceiving of a
system unless that system helps us to
move forward right it's like it's like
saying that weather is due to Zeus the
Thunder God like we can't make any
predictions about that we can't rely it
on any on it in any way it's not like a
useful conception of the world
irrespective of whether you know you
believe in Zeus or not I'm saying that
like there are two ways that you can
approach problems one is to diagnose or
define them in a way that is like
actionable in another way that is like
in actionable furthermore this happens
to be not true like calling yourself
lazy isn't is in and of itself
intellectually lazy it takes this
complicated aspect of human behavior
which is not simplistic and it reduces
it down to one word and then so you're
like okay we're done so the real reason
this happens is can you guys see that
like so now we have our intellect okay
we have our ego and then we have our
emotions and basically there's like a
pull between these and if our ego is
stronger than our intellect or our
emotions then we'll will behave a
certain way right if our emotions are
stronger than our intellect our ego will
behave another way
and if our intellect is stronger than
our ego or emotions will behave a third
way right so let's just think about this
for a second so let's say that you guys
let's say someone criticizes me okay so
let's say dr. K is an idiot
what do you guys think is the first part
of my mind that responds to that thought
okay right so so in emotion most people
are saying emotion or ego so like like
what's the emotion that I'm gonna be
feeling
okay hold on so defense is not an
emotion okay so we're gonna say so you
guys are saying emotion first okay so
anger may be shame right and what is
defense what is the defense of thought
okay or you can say ego first I'm not
stupid
yes he beautiful I'm not stupid
also you're stupid
I'm not stupid you're stupid you're the
dumb one I'm not the dumb one he's wrong
me right so do you guys see how like so
so even thoughts like how dare you do
you know who I am
do you know who I am do you know do you
know how dare you how dare you so these
are all ego thoughts right so then what
happens is depending on on my mind and
how strong it is or weak it is the
intellect comes in and so the intellect
may say hey man you're not perfect
these people are calling you an idiot
maybe it's because you're a boomer and
you don't know how to use technology
twitch hurr Durr okay it's like you know
these guys like you may be you know you
may have a certain amount of educational
background but it's not like the people
on Twitter dumb right like the people on
Twitter like let's be honest twitch it
is pretty smart sometimes you say dumb
things right tech W POG Bey Hance right
so it's like so so few areas like look
at this like so now what happens is the
question is like what part of my mind is
stronger so even though you know my my
ego is gonna respond in a particular way
like it depends on the relative strength
of my ego or intellect so you know I try
to do something which some I mean I hope
works most of the time but maybe I don't
know right so even that that little
thing that I did in my head was ego
warring with intellect and I'll explain
that in a second but generally speaking
when someone calls me stupid
my first question is like why do you
think that it's not you're wrong because
they may be right like I could be dumb
like there's no way to know I mean maybe
I am dumb right it's very possible
so like help me understand like how do
you why do you think I'm dumb whereas if
I let my in and that's actually my
intellect controlling or I think it's
controlling my response and I may see
feel some kind of emotion like I may
feel angry or ashamed and then like I
kind of like notice that emotion I set
it aside I'm like okay look we feel
shame we feel attacked we feel like
these people don't like me and I want to
be liked and I want to be
Soviet so I'm getting attacked let's try
to figure out what's going on here and
then other times my ego is gonna like
win when it comes to my intellect I'm
just gonna get incensed and angry and
things like that
and I'm gonna say I'm not stupid you're
stupid so do you guys see how like each
of these things this guy oh no he
figured out I'm posture attack
handwriting fog run away stop streaming
so all of these thoughts can come from
emotions and like you guys can see that
like the the the nature of thoughts that
come from different parts of our mind
are different and that's what leads to
conflict and confusion and us not doing
the right thing okay so this is what I
love about this model of mind is once
you understand like which thoughts come
from which places you can see why you're
not able to do stuff and what it comes
down to is what are the relative
strengths of your intellect ego and
emotions so generally speaking you know
gamers have an intellect that's level
three they have emotions that are level
five and they have ego that is level 82
and so like the reason you guys are
stuck is because there's like some parts
of your mind that are just way stronger
than other parts of your mind and
they're beating crap out of you
right it's like yeah I mean you guys
understand levels I don't need to
explain it further so let's look at a
couple of other attributes okay so how
does this help us so the first thing is
what is the chain of events so generally
speaking our minds reaction so order of
operations okay
order
operations so the first thing that tends
to happen is an emotional response so
motion is super fast okay and if you
think about it like if I walk into a
room and then everyone turns on the
lights and says surprised even before I
consciously process what is going on
before I have an an analytical
understanding of what happens in the
room like my emotions are like react so
emotions are the fastest okay and then
what happens is our ego so these act
first now let's talk about ego for a
second so then usually ego arises as a
protective mechanism so the ego is your
main tank that's the way I want you guys
to think about it when your emotions
when you're feeling hurt your ego or
eise's to protect you so when some girl
like let's say you ask out a girl this
is an example that I use a lot and she
says no then you feel like shame you
feel fear that you're unlovable you feel
like all these things but they happen
like this and then your ego steps in
right away to protect you from all those
negative feelings and you're like yeah
it's her loss she's dumb like I can do
so much better than her you know she's
gonna end up alone like all of these
thoughts like those are all egotistical
thoughts right like that's clear I don't
need to explain that like oh yeah like
she missed out man boy did I dodged a
bullet when really like that doesn't
make any sense oh she's not that
attractive anyway like I'm not even that
into her which is like why'd you ask her
out in the first place man like if
you're not that into her oh yeah I was
doing her a favor and then if you talked
to people like you'll see that like as
you talk to them rationally like their
ego just keeps on spinning stuff out and
that's because their main tank is really
strong like you can try to attack it any
way you want to their main tanks like
level 82 and it's like hey man you got
nothing on me like I can block whatever
you send my way right and and so like
the main tank kind of steps in and
protects you
from negative emotion so it's really
trying to protect you it's trying to
help you out like it's trying to help
you feel less hurt because if you don't
think those kinds of thoughts if you
don't think oh it's her loss
then whose loss is it it's my loss and
that's hard for people to accept and
then what happens is the intellect goes
and then sorry the ego goes and it
bullies the intellect so it goes over
the intellect and it's like hey buddy
we're hurting right now I need you to go
back in time and do some really really
selective analysis that shows us that
proves my point to my emotions that we
are awesome and so the intellect is like
okay like I don't know if I want to do
that knee goes like no screw you like
your level three I'm level 82 like do
some selective reasoning for us
and there are intellectus like oh yeah
remember six years ago when that
attractive popular girl actually had a
crush on us and we found out three years
later and we didn't really do anything
about it but she was into us because
that friend told us that she was kind of
into us and she kind of had a crush on
us and she was super hot and she was
super popular so yep it's that girl's
loss that girl turned me down like cuz
six years ago this other girl like found
me attractive so that's that's how it
works right
like the intellect gets bullied by the
ego and the egos like hey man do
selective reasoning and and then the
intellect is like okay and then the
problem is that the this person thinks
they're logical right so then then what
happens is selective reasoning because
if you try to argue with them their
their intellect presents evidence and if
you guys have ever tried to like you
know argue with someone and you've
presented evidence you can understand
especially if they're like emotionally
hurt in some way evidence is irrelevant
and and so I'll give you guys kind of
another example of this so let's say
that you have a relationship where one
partner is unfaithful and then like you
know that person feels like ashamed of
being unfaithful but then their ego
steps in and they're like oh you know
they made me cheat like they weren't
emotionally or physically available
because they were working so hard and
they weren't
and I have needs and then what happens
as it goes to the intellect and it's
like hey like we feel bad about
ourselves can you come up with some kind
of line of reasoning that can make us
feel better about ourselves and then
your intellect is like sure how about we
say that we have unmet needs because if
we have unmet needs needs then we can do
whatever we need to do to meet those
needs it's not morality or anything like
that we're gonna frame them as needs and
if we frame them as needs like hunger
and thirst like you can't really blame
us for doing that and then we'll feel
better about ourselves and so this is
kind of the chain of events okay
presuming that your intellect is weak is
this a one person asked a question about
confidence so confidence is opposite ego
so if we have a spectrum egos over here
confidence is over here so I'm about to
say something and this could be ego this
could be confidence you guys let me know
so I think that the way that I respond
to people's criticism of me is because
I'm confident in Who I am but if someone
calls me stupid my whole question is
gonna be why because I don't you know I
don't need to feel smart to them I'm
pretty confident in Who I am and what
I'm capable of so I'm like okay so like
tell me how I'm wrong am i dumb sure
let's let's hear out how am i dumb in
what way
so that to me feels like a confident
response but maybe that's my ego talking
cuz now I'm saying I do this and like oh
like look at me like I'm so confident oh
yeah look at how dr. K is confident look
at it so dr. K is different right you
guys have your ego that's Lovelady tube
of my intellect to say 82 ah right that
in and of itself is an egotistical
statement like this comparison that I'm
making about myself is egotistical so
maybe in that situation actually like
I'm doing the same thing I'm committing
the same problem it's just but no no but
you guys don't understand I have
evidence that I'm less egotistical than
everybody else I have evidence let me
tell you about all the yoga that I did
let me tell you about all the meditation
that I did let me tell you about this
let me tell you about that let me tell
you why I am different
you guys see that that's an ego
statement right that's an ego statement
so like so any statement that has to
kind of do with with I could be an ego
statement or it could be like an actual
intellectual assessment right so like
your intellect can without ego assess
that you're good at things are assess it
that you're bad at things the question
is what is the relationship between
intellect and ego it's for you guys to
decide whether my statement is
egotistical or confident like that's for
you to decide and that is my sense of
that's actually like that's a good D
statement so that's an intellectual
statement for me to say that you guys
are the deciders of whether I'm
egotistical or confident in my mind is a
statement that comes from my intellect
not my ego because my ego says oh y'all
are right I mean y'all are wrong and I'm
right
it's not for you to decide it's for me
to decide and so in my mind if I'm
telling you guys y'all are the ones that
decide whether I'm smart or dumb or
confident or egotistical that's kind of
like the intellect because the intellect
sort of says my intellect says you know
you're gonna be biased or I'm gonna be
biased my mind is gonna be biased so if
I really want a fair shake of like what
I'm capable of I should look to other
people because they're gonna be like
more objective than I am because I'm
gonna experience all my own emotions so
confidence equals being humble basically
yeah right so if you think about someone
who's confident they're not so what's
the difference new confidence in ego
okay let's just talk about this for a
second
self-worth from within and then
self-worth from without or actually
outside
right so when people have their sense of
self depends on the praise or lack of
praise they get from other people that's
ego and when your sense of self comes
from within and it doesn't depend upon
other people that's confidence so people
who are egotistical are gonna be like
sensitive to the criticisms of others if
you call them dumb they're gonna respond
in a particular way is like the
confident person is like okay you can
think I'm dumb like that's fine
let go I don't think go ahead and think
that that's fine okay so let's go back
to this for a second so the order of
operations so now the question is like
how do we move forward okay so actually
there are a couple of questions the
first is so let's just go back here okay
emotions ego and intellect okay so the
first thing is like if you guys are
having trouble with following your like
accomplishing what you tell your mind to
do if you tell your mind to do something
and it doesn't work like you're like oh
we need to get a job the first thing
that you need to do is recognize in your
thoughts which thoughts are coming from
what place okay so now we're gonna do a
couple of practical applications so if
we want to get a job or we want to stop
playing video games right like what what
are the thoughts that we have like write
down the thoughts of conflict and then
try to figure out which one is coming
from where and then you'll understand
that it's not like you're just dumb and
paralyzed and lazy it's that there's
actually like a war going on inside you
and there are different parts of you
that are like fighting for different
things right it's kind of like an
election where each part of your mind
has a different number of votes based on
their relative strength and then they
kind of like all cast their vote and
then you decide on a particular behavior
so this could be so look for thoughts of
shame or anger
whatever and then also recognize that
like the last thing that you the thing
that you're gonna experience first in
your mind is actually gonna be the last
one in the chain so the last thing
you're gonna find or the first thing
you're gonna find is the selective
reasoning which is actually like the
last thing in the consequence because
this chain happens super fast like less
than a second because the mind is pretty
amazing so if I ask a girl out and she
says no within five seconds or maybe one
second I'm gonna be thinking oh it's her
loss right it happened super fast so
what you guys want to do is isolate the
different thoughts that are coming from
emotions coming from ego and coming from
intellect so let me give you guys a
couple of attributes of these okay so
emotions I think you guys we've talked
about before we did a whole lecture on
that so I'd go back and watch that if
you guys want a go there are a couple of
clues one is its comparative okay so
this is the biggest clue of an
egotistical thought and we have a
channel on our discord that's devoted to
a hum car or finding your ego so this is
a thought that compares you to someone
else or compares different things the
ego is fundamentally comparison
comparative the other thing is ego pumps
you up and puts other people down so if
you have a thought that is comparison or
lifts like pumps you up or tries to
knock other people down those are ego
thoughts right so oh I could do better
than her that's a comparison that also
like puts you up and puts her down do
you guys see how like that thought I
could do better than her
so the other thing is I don't know if
you guys are familiar with like the
pickup artist
red pill kind of movement but in my
experience these people have very very
strong egos and they do a lot of very
selective reasoning and they tend to not
be aware of their emotions because they
make a lot of comparisons right and I
invite you guys to like look for that
yourself
and so you'll kind of see that like they
make lots of comparisons they make they
put other people down they put
themselves up so they have like very
very strong egos so then then what
happens is like you know you're gonna
have some amount of reasoning so like
you're gonna have some things that you
use as evidence or justification so look
for the thoughts that make you think
you're right right these are the
thoughts that make you think you are
right and that's gonna be the intellect
and whether those thoughts are accurate
or inaccurate are is based on their
relative strength to the ego so the last
thing to understand about this is that
like so we have a basic problem with our
intellect which is that human beings
always believe that they are correct and
they are logical right no human being
walks around and says I am wrong if you
talk to anyone about politics for
example everyone who believes something
in politics logically believes that they
are correct and that the other side is
wrong it's not about right or wrong I
mean it's about right or wrong it's not
about relative views like you know one
of the biggest things that I remember
when you know I was training and so I
trained it a very liberal institution
and the the biggest thing that I
remember in 2016 when Trump won the
election and in the US is that everyone
was surprised that people could
quote-unquote be so stupid they were
like I don't understand how people can
be so stupid I don't understand how
people can be so stupid
if you think about it that like everyone
no one thinks they're stupid everyone
thinks that are smart everyone thinks
they're logical so how do you know
whether your intellect is operating well
or is like operating poorly how can you
tell whether your intellect is flawed or
correct because your intellect is always
gonna tell you that you are correct
right it's kind of like bizarre so so so
this person says liberals on ego trip
lull w that in and of itself is also a
comparison what I'm saying is that
everyone is on an ego trip everyone who
talks about politics usually believes
that they are factually correct
and then the other side believes they're
factually correct right so this is
exactly what I'm saying like even
y'all's reactions are so rapid if you're
making a comparison that like the same
is true of conservatives right so when I
talk to trump supporters now and I ask
them how do you guys think the u.s. is
doing with the coronavirus they say
we're doing a great job and then I say
okay then help me understand why you
think it is that the number of cases
that we how are we number one in the
world even coronavirus cases we had two
months more to prepare than China like
how is that a great job and then they
they tell me all kinds of different
stuff right so then their intellect does
these weird mental gymnastics and and
they say oh it's the NIH s fault it's
like how is it the NIH s fault but help
me understand that they're like oh it's
the scientists fault that's like what do
you mean it's the scientists fault and
then I can keep on asking him questions
and their mind is going to keep on
coming up with answers right so that's
that is they're just gonna keep on
coming up with answers I can ask a
million questions that I want to and as
I ask more questions and as they so
let's just think about this as I ask
more questions how do you think they
feel
okay so as they as they get insecure so
let's run through this right this is fun
so as they feel insecure what's gonna
happen how are they gonna respond to
that insecurity sure they feel insecure
frustrated irritated more ego exactly
right
and then what does their intellects
gonna do as we level up the ego ego
protect their emotions
shields up and then what happens defend
themselves counter right right and so
this is what happens if you engage in a
political discussion with someone the
more right you are how convinced do they
get when you're right absolutely they're
tanking up right that the more correct
you are the more wrong they feel so this
is the main thing you guys got to
understand in politics the more wrong
they feel the more right they're gonna
feel and the less they're gonna listen
and we kind of know this right like you
can observe this so like this model that
Yogi's came up with 5000 years ago in
five minutes explains political
discussion done so now I'm gonna ask you
guys a question
if you want to if you want to convince
someone politically what should you work
on how do you convince them okay
[Music]
where does it start
disarm their ego nope incorrect
you can't disarm the level 80 to tank
fight them sure emotions absolutely
right so like there's a really
fascinating I remember seeing like a
small docu-series about a black guy who
like convinced KKK members that they
were racist and like converted them from
racism to being like less racist and he
didn't do it by attacking them right he
like went and he hung out with them and
then likely they hung out with him and
they started hanging out for a little
while and then like the KKK folks were
like oh the students like actually a
pretty cool guy and so he just like
treated him like normal people and he
didn't attack him he didn't call him
dumb and then over time yeah Darrell
Davis so it's it's great like so that's
how you do it so this is the thing if
you want to convince someone you have to
disarm their emotions right you have to
make them feel comfortable and then like
over time you can sort of bypass the ego
and then like speak to their real
intellect because here's the thing as
long as they're not attacked their level
82 main tank is like is afk
so he's like afk drinking at the bar and
then you can have a conversation between
emotions and intellect and this is like
what a lot of therapy is about it's
about sort of disarming emotions so that
people can you know focus on their
intellect okay so yeah so that's the
goal like the goal is like as long as
you disarm their emotions and you treat
them with kindness then their main tank
is gonna go afk and if their main tank
is afk then you can have a discussion
with them so like when I'm talking to
people I mean I don't
I tend not to talk to people about
politics but you know when I have
someone whose views I disagree with I
tend to start by like actually first of
all starting with the idea that my views
could be wrong right like what makes my
views like why am i is a human being
more qualified to like know something
than someone else and and I had one of
these
since two days ago and it was it took a
lot of self-control to not let my ego
get in the way but it was like okay so
like maybe this person is right maybe
prayer does stop the coronavirus you
know it's possible like we do know that
that you know mind has a positive effect
on the immune system that is we as we
decrease our stress there's a
psychosomatic component and there are
all kinds of reasons why like what
they're saying actually could have merit
and I have to like really like work I
had to work at that a little bit right
to kind of get there again and and so as
long as you do that by the end like the
person is asking me questions they're
like you know and then sometimes you you
know you toss out statistics and you
quote things and things like that and
then you you know there's a part of you
that really wants to beat them into
submission by quoting studies because
they can't do that and I can but we try
to step away from that right